Hello and welcome to this art tutorial in this tutorial we are going to solve our business problem using
the Kamins algorithm in our.
So let's start by setting a working directory so we get a session set working directory and we click
on choose directory.
Then we pick our folder machine learning azy Part 3 clustering section Kamins clustering and we click
on Open.
OK now the first step is to import the small data sets.
So let's introduce a new code section with the comment importing Dymo data set and we import our dataset
by typing dataset left arrow.
Read that CSV.
And in parenthesis Model T S V.
OK let's select this line and hit Control increment please enter to execute.
And our data set is now imported.
Let's click on it to see it.
OK so let's me explain what this small dataset is about and what our mission is.
There is a big mall in a specific city that contains information of its clients the clients that subscribe
to the membership card when the clients subscribe to the card they provided their information like their
gender their age and their annual income.
And because they have this card they use it to buy all sorts of things in the mall and therefore the
mall has to purchase history of each of its client member.
And that's how they obtained the last column here which is a spending score.
So as a reminder of the spending score is a score that the mall computed for each of their clients based
on several criteria including for example their income the number of times per week they show up in
the mall.
And of course the amount of dollars they spent in year and based on all this they computed this metric
that takes values between 1 and 100.
So that the closer to spending score is to 1 and the less declines spends and the closer the spending
scores to 100 the more decline spends.
And eventually after collecting this data set the company hired you as a machine earning scientist to
segment their clients into different groups based on these two metrics.
The annual income and the spending score and since the mall has no idea what this client segments might
be or even has no idea about how many segments there would be.
This is typically a clustering problem because we don't know the answers.
So now let's start our mission and use the Kamins algorithm to find out what those clusters of clients
might be.
So here we just imported the data set and now let's create a variable x that will only contain the two
columns we are interested in the annual income and the spending score.
So here we write X left arrow data set and then in square brackets we're going to put the two indexes
of our two columns of interest.
That is if we go to data set since indexes are started 1 the indexes of our two columns annual income
and spending score are 4 and 5.
So here in the square brackets we put for Column 5 which means that we go from 4 to 5.
OK.
It's like this line of code and execute it perfect.
It created the array x of our two columns which we can visualize here by clicking on X..
All right.
Now we have our data well imported and well-prepared and we are ready to move onto the next step and
that's when things start to get interesting indeed.
Right now we are going to start using Kamins.
So remember when we use Kamins we have to specify the number of clusters.
But the problem here is that we have no idea of how many clusters of clients we are looking for.
So we could fit came in several times in our dataset with different numbers of clusters to test different
outcomes.
However there is a much faster way that allows us to find the optimal number of clusters to use with
K means for our problem and we are of course going to use the elbow method.
So let's introduce a new section with the comment using the elbow method to find the optimal number
of clusters and in this code section we are going to make a for loop to plot our elbow method chart
.
So since there are random factors and Kamins we can obtain slightly different results by using came
in several times.
So in order to all get the same result we are going to set the same seed and to do this we type set
dot seed and then parenthesis we can pick whatever number we like.
Let's pick six.
Then we are going to use a for loop to compute some different within plus the sum of squares for different
numbers of clusters and we are going to place the different within cluster sum of squares in a vector
.
So let's start by initializing this vector by typing WCA says left arrow vector and empty parenthesis
So that just initialized an empty vector.
And now we're going to use the full loop to populated with the different within cluster sum of squares
.
So let's write four.
And in parenthesis I in one call and 10.
So in four loops and are the lower bound in the upper bound are included so here that means that I'm
going to take the values from 1 to 10 into that and then at each iteration we directly compute the within
close to sum of squares for each number of clusters by writing sum and in parenthesis k means X..
I fit the Kamins algorithm to our data set X with clusters and by doing that we actually created an
object of the class K Kamins in R.
And if we select Kamins here press F 1 and then scroll down to value we see that this class has an attribute
called within that computes to within a cluster sum of squares so let's of course use it and type Kamins
X I and then Dollar Sign with it.
All right.
Now thanks to this group the WTS has vector's populated with a 10 different with interest the sum of
squares for the 10 numbers of clusters 9:59.
Perfect.
So now all we have to do leftist plot the graph.
So we type plot and in parenthesis we first put the x values that means 9:59 then the y values.
WCA says OK then let's select plot and press F 1.
We can specify a type of plot.
Peter have only points L to have any lines and B for both.
And we are going to choose both.
So be.
Then let's give a title to her plot by typing main equals space and in parenthesis clusters of clients
.
Then we a name to our X label.
So let's put ex-law because number of clusters and we give a name to our y axis y love equals WCOS s
.
Now let's electroscope section here and let's execute it to see if we have an optimal number of clusters
And yes we do.
We can clearly see that the point here is the elbow.
And when we project this point on the x axis we obtain 5 clusters.
So that means that the optimal number of clusters for our problem is five clusters.
And thanks to this insightful information we are ready to move on to the next step because the next
step is actually to fit Kamins to the small data set with the right number of clusters five clusters
.
So let's introduce this new step with the comment applying gamins to them all datasets.
Then let's proceed so that we all obtain the same result.
We can beat any number let's pick 29 and then let's fit came into our data x.
So we create the object gamins from the class Kamins and then let's select Kamins here and press F 1
.
The first argument we have to input is our data X then the second argument is the number of clusters
And now we know it's five.
And then like in python we can specify a maximum of iterations.
Let's use the same value for Mexico 300.
And we can also specify the number of initial random sets and start equals then.
All right now we have everything we need and we are ready to select this code section and execute it
to fit the Kamins algorithm to our data X..
Here we go.
And perfect.
Now let's move on to the next step and let's get all the fun.
Indeed this is the fun part because we did our job fitting the Kamins algorithm to our data X and now
we look forward to seeing the results.
So let's immediately introduce this new section.
Visualizing the clusters we are going to Protheroe clusters using the cluster library.
So first thing we do is to import the cluster library and to do this you can either go to packages and
select cluster here or we can type here library and in parenthesis cluster which is a better way if
you want to execute later.
The whole script.
And now let's plot our clusters to do this.
We will use clus plot let's select classpath here and press F 1 to see the parameters through input
.
So the first parameter is our data x.
The second parameter when put the vector of clusters.
That is the vector that returns for each observation which cluster it belongs to and we can take this
vector by typing Kamins dollar sign cluster then a parameter that we have to specify is lines because
when you don't give a value two lines some distance lines between the clusters will appear in your plot
and we don't really want that.
So we are going to choose a value zero so that no distance lines will appear in our plot.
Then let's set the parameters shape to true so that the clusters are shaded with respect to their density
then Same for color.
Let's add it to true then we have the parameter labels and we are going to pick labels equals to so
that we have all points and clusters labeled in the plot.
Then we don't really want different symbols for the points and different clusters.
So we said plot got to false then we have this cool parameter span that allows us to plot ellipses around
the clusters and in order to plot the ellipses we will set it to true.
And finally we would like to add a title to our plot.
So we write main equals spaced clusters of clients.
Then we want to give a name to our x axis so we add x love equals annual income and same for the y axis
while other equals spending score.
And now a moment of truth.
Let's find out what our five clusters look like.
We select this code section here and let's press commander control plus enter to execute voila our five
final clusters.
So let's look at them one by one cluster one clients and cluster one have high income and no spending
score.
So in this cluster clients earn a high income but don't spend much money.
So we could call this cluster of clients.
Careful for careful clients cluster to clients in cluster to have average income an average spending
score.
So let's call this cluster of clients standard cluster 3 high income and high spending score.
So that is the cluster of clients that would be the main potential target of the mall marketing campaigns
.
And so it would be very insightful for them all to understand what kind of products are bought by the
clients in this cluster.
So eventually we can get to discuss the following name targets cluster for low income and low spending
score.
So as opposed to the Carolis clients who have low income and spend much we are going to call them the
sensible clients and eventually close to five low income but high spending score.
So clients in this cluster earn a low income but don't care and spend much.
So let's call this cluster of clients careless.
All right.
We are done with the Kamins algorithm and our look at our code is structured simple and it does the
job perfectly well and you can use this code any time you want for your work you just have to replace
the name of the data set.
Change the indexes of the columns of interest and then you just have to execute this code to find some
answers of your business problem.
And if you are doing clustering in more than two dimensions then don't execute the less code section
to visualize the clusters because it's only for two dimensional clustering.
However later in this course we will learn a technique that allows us to reduce the diamond sions of
our data sets.
So if you reduce your data set to two dimensions then you can use this last code section to plot the
clusters.
And now to finish this tutorial let's clear everything.
So we click on this button here.
Let's also go here and press control Al to clear the console.
We still like the whole code executed and we make sure everything works fine.
Thank you for watching this video and I look forward to seeing you in the next tutorial.